## UC 2: Electronic Travel Authorization / ETA (Amadeus-Signicat)

Streamlined travel experience

Use case:
Electronic Travel Authorization (eTA/ETA) systems, such as those used in the UK, Canada, and the upcoming EU ETIAS (ETIAS is the new travel authorisation for visa-exempt travellers to enter European countries), are increasingly moving toward integration with digital wallets such as the EU Digital Identity Wallet. These wallets allow travellers to securely store, present, and verify their authorization status digitally rather than relying on paper printouts or passport-only checks. Moreover, by having a trusted and qualified provider of ETA attestations, standardisation of ETA presentations can be achieved, allowing the traveller to use a single ETA attestation for multiple systems (e.g. for travelling to the UK and Canada).

Travellers can share via an EU Digital Identity Wallet their Electronic Travel Authorization (ETA) status with transport providers (airlines, ferry companies) to verify they are permitted to board, often using a QR code or NFC-based sharing feature, ensuring the data is accurate. This will result in a seamless, integrated and user friendly travel experience: Beyond just the ETA, the wallet can store linked travel documents, such as digital boarding passes, and be used for hotel reservations, creating a fully, digital, check-in process. Finally, via the wallet, the ETA can be presented as an Electronic Attestation of Attributes (EAA), allowing automated verification of the traveller without having to reveal unnecessary personal information in a standardised manner. Moreover, the traveller retains control over which information to share with which party.

Use case description:
1) Dutch traveller books a plane ticket to the UK. An ETA is required to travel to the UK.
2) Traveller is redirected to a qualified ETA provider.
3) Traveller logs in with her EUDI Wallet and shares her PID.
4) The ETA provider mobile app is launched on the mobile phone of the traveller and she is asked to scan the chip of her passport and make a selfie video and to answer some questions.
5) The ETA provider verifies the requested information and issues an ETA EAA verifiable credential to the traveller’s EUDI Wallet.
6) Traveller goes to the Amsterdam airport and the boarding gate for her flight to London.
7) Prior to boarding, the traveller scans a QR-code with her mobile phone and this results in the presentation of the ETA verifiable credential to the airline; she may now board the plane.
