## UC 7: Accessing Discounted Train Fares via EUDIW (PagoPA)

Use Case overview
------------------------------------------------------

**UC7: Accessing Discounted Train Fares via EUDIW** aims to streamline the train booking process for passengers eligible for specific concessions, such as, for instance, disability, student or age-related discounts, by leveraging digital credentials. For instance, a passenger with a certified disability can easily obtain a reduced-fare ticket or request travel assistance directly on the Trenitalia app through his EUDIW. 

This UC contributes to WP4 objectives by addressing the **Scenario 1: Streamlined Travel Experience**, showing how EUDIW could remove the burden of manual data entry and physical document or certificates verification, ensuring a frictionless user experience during the Trenitalia booking process. In this specific case, users with disabilities could access to their personalized fares in a easier way, bu simply using their devices.

Specifically, UC7 demonstrates how a passenger with a certain condition can book a train ticket on Trenitalia app, asking for a personalized fare, that could enable them with a discount or other personal rights such a second free ticket for the accompanist. The process implies the use of PagoPA EUDIW in which the user can store their useful credentials and share them when needed. In this case, the passenger will share their PID and Disability Card to apply the discount and personalize their fare.
The ultimate goal is to scale this model at a European level: since these credentials are designed for EU-wide recognition, Italian passengers should enjoy the same seamless experience with any European rail operator, effectively demonstrating the power of cross-border interoperability.
